we start in Gaza where more than a
million people are facing what's being
described by the UN as an impossibility
the Israeli military has given them just
24 hours to flee their homes As It
prepares for an expected ground Invasion
hamash which Hamas which controls the
territory has told residents to ignore
the warning but many people have already
decided it's time to
go dawn breaks in Gaza to a wave of
aerial
bombardments a barrage of explosions
destroying buildings in the
region and today the attacks came along
with an official
warning as the Israeli military
continued amassing tanks and troops near
the gazen border ahead of an expected
ground Invasion it called for the some
1.1 million people located in Gaza City
to relocate to the South within 24 hours
this involves a journey across the W
Gaza Wetlands the river dividing the
territories north and
south and so the Exodus begins gazan
civilians and un staff alike started
moving as best they could out of Harm's
Way today we do not know where to go
there is no safe place we do not know
where our children are and we do not
know what to do we have no food or water
I'm appealing to the United Nations in
front of the UN building where do we go
where do we
go the UN said moving so many people in
such a short period of time within one
of the world's most densely packed areas
would be impossible quote without
devastating humanitarian
consequences but the clock ticks on the
World Health Organization called for
humanitarian access to Gaza to be
resumed it warns the Israel's total
blockade and continual bomb bombardment
pushed the health system to Breaking
Point lacking essential supplies and
electricity and we need a corridor to
provide medical services and and so on
that's what I would I would ask ask for
one is to protect civilians and second
to provide them with the support uh they
need be it food Medical Services
supplies Israel continues to insist that
it is doing everything it can to
minimize civilian suffering but for the
people of Gaza time is running out as
well as safe places to
go well leftenant Colonel Peter lner
speaks for the Israeli Defense Forces
welcome to DW why have you told more
than a million people in Gaza to
leave well over the last couple of days
you've been asking us uh what should
Palestinians do in order to safeguard
themselves and what we announced today
is actually a humanitarian gesture so
that people move from H's way you know
we are in now day seven of the aftermath
of the brutal Massacre of Israelis in
their homes uh just across the border in
southern Israel and in that reality what
we did immediately uh after the attack
was Evacuate the people from their
houses we took people and evacuated them
throughout the country and what we did
this morning is announced to people who
want to take um care of their lives what
they want to take care of their families
indeed this is a place you need to move
because we
are increasing our activities against
Hamas this terrorist organization cannot
be permitted to use the Gaza Strip as a
stronghold and a staging ground for
attacks against Israel so are Israeli
troops now are preparing to move into
Gaza so the IDF has over the last few
days recruited some 300,000 Reserve uh
soldiers and officers um for all of our
Arenas because we realize that there is
a lot of tension across the ground so
yes there is a lot of forces now um St
in staging grounds around the Gaza Strip
potentially preparing if the decision
and the instructions comes from the
government to mobilize on the ground
operation in order to defeat and Destroy
Hamas from ever being able to attack us
again what does that look like you say
uh the purpose will be to defeat and
destroy Hamas what will success in that
endeavor look
like well the success primarily will be
that this terrorist organization cannot
govern the Gaza Strip as a staging
ground for terrorism um that is why we
are targeting their institutions their
leadership their terrorist
infrastructure everything that they have
utilized in order to build this
terrorist compound from in the Gaza
Strip which is where they came from last
Saturday you know we've been focused
very much on the over the last 48 hours
on the NBA Force which is the Commando
unit of Hamas these are people that have
gone through highly milit High military
training you specializing in close
combat specializing in explosive these
are the people that actually breached
the fence and butchered people in their
kitchens these are the people we are
after I think it's really important the
people of Gaza are not the enemies of
Israel Hamas this terrorist organization
are the enemy of Israel how do you
defeat and Destroy at Hamas at in Gaza
while preserving the lives of gazans
because what it sounds like and I'm
happy for you to to uh tell me I've got
the wrong end of the stick what it
sounds like is that Israel is about to
level at Northern
Gaza well Phil you asked me what is the
purpose of evacuating people and that's
exactly what we're trying to do is tell
people Safeguard your lives move from
areas where there could be potential an
increase in in hostilities and in in and
in our operations Hamas has a
responsibility to the people of Gaza
Unfortunately they have failed them
miserably in by putting them in direct
threat but we know what they do because
you know another strike over the last
couple of days that we've conducted is
against their drone capabilities you
know how they Place their drones they
Place attack drones which are
effectively suicide drones to swarm
locations hous military compounds and
they plac them on the roofs of of houses
we've distributed and we're happy to
share it of course to DW that you show
where they're putting these houses where
the where they're putting these drones
on the houses of people they have no
regard for people the people living in
those houses they put them on the on
those houses making them a Target
sacrificing the people so when we are
telling people go to the South it's in
order so that we can operate against
Hamas who are the enemy of Israel but
they're also the enemy of the people of
Gaza understood we have one of the
world's most densely populated areas
this narrow strip of land it's already
suffering a humanitarian crisis now it
is being uh bombed uh by Israeli troops
and you're telling more or less half of
the population to move from there to an
already populated area an already uh
dramatically populated area because no
one can leave leave the
territory so we we know that Hamas
terrorists killed more than 1200 Israeli
uh civilians in this brutal attack on
Saturday does that legitimate the state
of Israel now ordering an attack on one
of the most densely populated areas on
Earth and inflicting even greater
suffering so are you suggesting that we
don't protect our civilians because
they're hiding behind theirs well this
is a ridiculous question know let me
just interrupt you there because I'm not
suggesting anything I'm not suggesting
anything what I'm asking you to do is to
provide the for our listeners and and
for me as well just to explain what is
the legitimation for doing this because
it does sound like you are inflicting um
what the UN has described as collective
punishment on garans so my question
was does what Hamas did legitimate the
state of Israel acting in this way and
if you like a yes or a no will
do um I don't like and what I'm trying
to explain is when Hamas turns the
people of Gaza as hostages to their
terrorist activities by putting rockets
in their schoolyards by putting drones
on their roofs by tunneling between
beneath their mosques and putting
everybody at risk so I'd say yes when we
tell people to move to the South it's we
are taking care of the people of Gaza
more than more than Hamas so I would say
yes we have now the responsibility to
restore Safety and Security to the
people of Israel who were butchered in
their bedrooms and that is something
that we will not accept ever again Hamas
cannot rule Gaza and expect to come out
and and for for Israel just to turn
another page we have that responsibility
our military is in charged with the
defense of the state of Israel when the
Hamas terrorist organization broke down
the fence charged in 20 different 20
different locations across into our
communities killed butchered abducted
and took back over a hundred people into
the Gaza Strip they could they they
basically said we don't care this is the
situation what are they trying to
achieve for the people of Gaza our
responsibility and our government and
our operations and our military
operations most importantly are
conducted within the laws of un conflict
specifically in order to safeguard
civilian life and even when there is a
risk to to civilian lives so I would say
yes we have the right and obligation to
operate and to alleviate and remove that
threat completely it cannot be happen
ever again we won't let that happen and
that is why we are embarked on this
Mission and and and quite frankly the
the the whole line of this Inquisition
against the right to self defense you
know when you're charging Israel with
the responsibility for all of the people
of Gaza and not asking Hamas why did
they sacrifice the people of Gaza in
such a ruthless way that is where we're
missing the point the point is this is a
terrorist organization that established
a terrorist front hold and stronghold
within the civilian Arena specifically
so that you would ask these questions
but they are responsible and they need
to be held accountable we will not allow
them ever again to threaten the state of
Israel okay thank you for joining us
leftenant Colonel Peter Lerner of the
Israeli Defense
Forces thank you
Phil I want to bring in the military
expert Frank ledridge now he's a senior
lecturer in strategic studies at Port
Smith University and a former UK
Military Intelligence officer he is
joining me from Oxford it's good to have
you on the program Frank so Israel's now
given people in Northern Gaza 24 hours
to leave and head south um does that
look to you uh as though that ground
invasion is now
imminent yes I think we can be fairly
certain of that Christine the
preparations are visible to everybody
whilst there may may be an element of
surprise to this there's no doubt at all
that they're going in I think we can
with respect to the orders given by the
israelies and the controversies around
it perhaps one reference point might be
what happened in mosul in the fight
fight against a similar terrorist group
is where refugees were allowed to leave
they were vetted to some extent but look
that's that's a separate issue they
answer to your question is yes I think
they'll be they'll be going in at some
point uh in the next few days they may
not do uh sort of fullon full panoply uh
assault may it may indeed form a sort of
Patchwork of assaults but we'll see
that's speculation Frank as you're
speaking we're actually showing live
images um and and and we can see what
looks to be tanks over there um as you
say they're they're likely going in so
what does that look like then what kind
of warfare can we expect you when those
Israeli troops enter
Gaza right again look back uh both sides
will have learned from this the
operations against is in Iraq and Syria
is what it's going to look like except I
think what you have here is Hamas is far
better prepared better armed equally
motivated as as as then Hamas has uh has
in terms of their Arsenal has drones it
will have prepared tunnels
fortifications strong points killing
zones and all the rest and all that will
be fully cognant the Israelis will be
cognizant of all of that in their
planning from the Israeli perspective uh
they have some very effective
countermeasures not least excellent
armored vehicles you won't be seeing
tanks in the streets but you will be
seeing a lot of equipment perhaps we
haven't seen in action before and
something plenty that we have it's going
to be really tough the urban fighting
and don't forget the tunnels issue
that's what's really going to be
concerning the Israelis I
think Frank um around 300,000 reservists
uh have been mobilized on the on the
Israeli side but there is also uh in
addition to of course this this this
Invasion into Hamas we know that Israel
is also facing this threat from
Hezbollah coming from the
north I guess I'm asking you is Israel
essentially prepared here for for a a
multi-front war
the answer to that is yes and they will
have exercised that both at the highest
command levels and down to the down to
the Brigade that's to say the units of
3,000 or so Israel has dedicated
brigades that know the north that are
that are directed that way the reserves
in those particular units will have been
deployed there in the past and regularly
during their their periodic training so
yes they're prepared for for Hezbollah
and indeed it's worth remembering that
Hezbollah is considered a far more
formidable adversary than Hamas and they
are the only Arab Army that's defeated
the Israelis uh I'll be at at a sort of
strategic level but nonetheless they're
very formidable and the Israelis will be
more than aware of that all right that
is let's leave it there Frank that is
the military analyst uh Frank Leed
talking to us there thank you so much we
appreciate that um and I just want to
point out to our viewers that while we
were able to show you pictures uh of
what is happening uh with the IDF in
Israel we are by no means indicating
that that ground of invasion has begun
we have not re received official
confirmation that that ground Invasion
has
begun